some advanced program and we're having more and more students that have placed out of classes in their high school testing where they may be taking the freshman english but they may be taking the advanced engineering classes like this past year there was a 19 year old girl that had got her degree in electrical engineering her master's degree is working on her doctorate which most of the freshmen
And sophomores are 19 now.
But I think if they had one place to go to find their materials or one building complex rather than, I've heard people say, oh, it's so much nicer to do research at A&M than it is at, and they'll mention a university, because you have to go to so many different buildings to find your materials.
I'm on your side on that one.
And I wish that our budget would increase to maybe there are times that we could add a second copy of titles.
There was a time period that we could only add one copy of a book.
And if you have 200, 300 people using that one copy, it's hard.
We have, are trying, and I don't know how we'll be able to do it, a textbook collection.
I know you can't buy all the university textbooks.
But I know you can't buy all the university textbooks because so many books are, it would be nice if we could quote indoctrinate the teaching professors to
Check our collections before they give a bibliography of things for people to read.
Yes, they may have used them at XYZ University where they came from.
That doesn't mean it's in every collection.
And if they're going to make a major assignment, put it on reserve for the students for their help.
I think that would help.
Other advice you would give decision makers about A&M Library?
Keep all the better communication from top down and not let us find out things by the grapevine.
And if there's going to be changes in a department's leadership or they're going to put someone in a temporary position, don't let us find it out by the grapevine.
For example, we...
We had a, our department has training sessions and tries to visit other departments in the library so that we know what's going on because we are, serve as a general information desk as well as a reference desk.
So we visit other departments such as special collections.
and the Policy Sciences Library, we have that coming up.
We visit the West Campus Library business, so we know what they have.
But, for example, we found out one person in one department was going to be in special collections as a special person to build
a collection.
And we found it out when we visited the Special Collections Department.
It had not been announced.
We still don't know what's going to happen to the department where this person resided.
We've just now found out that one of our cohorts is taking a leave of absence and taking her place as someone out of reference.
And so we're kind of left in limbo.
What are we going to do?
Because we're already short people in our department.
And our department head is leaving.
And so we're down two key people.
So let us know what's going to happen.
What can we expect?
What kind of support can we have from the administration?
I think that all departments, they were supposedly, quote, an hours committee where all departments would get together and talk about the hours of service.
And it's not come through.
Our department is the one that is open more than any other department or any other library on campus.
And if they're open later, they're expecting it to come from us rather than other areas.
And I think it should be a uniform hours of operation.
and not depend, everybody else closes and this one does.
Because especially when they don't know the others are closing, that it puts hardship when you send them and they say, well, there's nobody over there.
They're not even there until this afternoon.
And if we knew, that would be one thing.
But take into consideration the use of the building.
Okay.
To whom do you feel most gratitude relating to all these years here?
To whom do you feel grateful?
In the library or whatever?
Anywhere.
Well, one of the first people I came in contact with was LaBelle Castle.
and she made you learn your reference collection.
I learned a lot from her.
I think Jack Smith and Henry Osmire and Evelyn King really had a relationship with the faculty and the staff.
I have friends that are in, were in, history department that I learned a lot from.
In library school, I had one professor that I learned all my reference from that made it useful, and his theory was if you can't find it, you call somebody that does.
I learned a lot in the history department.
I had, I guess, Dr. Lang.
Just a second.
Okay.
I learned a lot from Dr. Lange in history to make me appreciate the state better.
Haskell Monroe had an influence.
I took classes under him.
And one of the best books I read in his class, Mores and Jarm, was from Plowshares to Petticoats because I could relate to that.
Garland Bayless was another one in history that I learned a lot from.
A lot of the ones in history, they used the library.
And they came over and wanted us to find and help their students use them.
Dr. Lange encouraged me to index a journal that was useful.
And I've had people all over, and that was something that I wouldn't have ever done without his push on taking the classes, just getting to know him.
And in the library, like I said, a hard taskmaster that I worked with in the library was Kathy Jackson.
But she stood up for her people in reference.
And so I learned from her.
And I know a lot of people,
Probably didn't or don't.
I think we've got some people here at the library that I wouldn't want as a director.
I can feel comfortable working with most people.
All right.
Then my last question is this one.
What feelings do you carry in your heart for Texas A&M and its library today?
Well, like I said, I always wanted to work at A&M.
And I haven't changed my field.
Salary-wise, our library salaries are not that great.
And the librarians and the people in the library on this campus have gone from being, we're still not first-class citizens.
We were treated a lot of times, if you go in hierarchy below the custodial,
We're still maybe a little above because a lot of people don't see the need for a library.
They don't think that we're professionals.
We do research, not the same type.
I think in a way librarians are more professional than anyone else because my theory is
You may be a jack of all trades, but a master of none.
But someone in chemistry comes up and says, I need this.
You can help them find the answer.
Someone in history says, I want to find this.
Like we had a telephone question, what did the loyalists do during the revolution yesterday?
Did they burn their houses?
So we had to go and find that answer.
And this was a former history professor.
I don't know who he was, but he came back.
And we've had other people come in and say, I'm doing research on the battered children.
What do you think about?
We may not know the answer, but we know where to go and find the answer.
And that's what we have to do is be able to find it or get you into the place to find the answer or show you how to use the material.
So we have to know a lot of things where you may only need to know one, your narrow field.
We have to know everything.
And so that's what I think a librarian is supposed to do.
I may not know a lot about everything, but I know a little bit about
something about everything or how to find it or who to go to.
And you feel warmly about the library and A&M at this time?
If I didn't, I probably still wouldn't be here.
That's okay.
But I'm still here, and I don't know.
I've been here since August of 64.
I don't know how much longer the Lord's going to let me stay here, but I have a 13-year-old in the seventh grade.
I have now an 11-month-old, so I'm going to be here a while and hope I can keep making the adaptions that's needed and be useful to the university.
And I still have people come to me, even though there are others that are more technology-oriented than I am.
I can still find the materials.
I may be more book-oriented, but I can find the materials, and I probably always will be.
And I have them come up, and I've had people say, oh, when the computers are down, electronics is down, how can we help people find?
And I've been here long enough, and I've looked at the collection enough that I can say, well, you can go and browse in this area and find an answer.
And I think that's a strength that those of us of the,
older generation have that the younger generation doesn't have that's only used computers to find information.
We can get you into an area.
So I'll be here hopefully a long, long time.
Thank you.